Problem Statement

The literature tells us that gun violence in the U.S. is drastically higher than in otherwise similar countries and that it is a direct result of high gun ownership rates and lax gun restrictions. The article starts off with more simple representations of data like firearm homicide rates by country and a map of all mass shootings in the last five years before moving onto visualizing correlations for both firearm homicides and firearm suicides. 

Redesign
One of the things I do not like about the article is the flow. It jumps from one gun-related topic to another without transitioning, potentially overwhelming readers. I would reduce the number of graphs by combining some of them. For example, graphs #5 and #6 could be converted to the same scale and put side by side, or overlaid with the states and countries as different colored points. Overlaying them would be especially striking since most other countries have fewer than four gun deaths per 100,000 people while the lowest rate for a state is three or four per 100,000 people.
When highlighting the issue and urgency of gun violence, graph #9 detracts from the overall point so it may be better to remove this graph. 
Graph #11 is rather vague. While most of the graphs measured deaths per capita, this graph measures the count of suicides, which is inconsistent, if not misleading. I also think it may be more informative with more than two bins for ownership rates, as well as actually specifying what the rates are for each bin. 
Graph #12 has a nice layout, but ideally it would include country-wide data instead of only Indiana.
Graph #14 has the same issue as graph #11 where the bins are unclear. I would increase the bin number for ownership rates and specify those rates. Also, it does not specify if the deaths of police officers are by firearm or just all police deaths.
Graphs #15 and #16 could be combined. I would like graph #15 better if it indicated when the most well-known mass shootings were and graph #16 is confusing because the more recent polls are above the earlier results. I would combine them by adding vertical lines to graph #15 labeling the five most well-known mass shootings in the graph’s time frame. If possible, I would also like to extend the graph’s range to include pre-Columbine polls. Also if possible, I would like to see how graph #15 would look when split along party lines. However, this may be too many lines to include in one graph.
Graph #17 is very good but I would include either a line or shading to mark 50% to further highlight just how many gun restrictions majority of Republicans support.

Deception
One way of generally deceiving when comparing countries on graphs like #1 would be to include countries with higher gun ownership and gun death due to war.
Instead of graph #7, I would make a similar graph with only the violent crime where the bars were broken down by weapon. Since the U.S.’s rate of violent crime is not higher than all of the other countries listed, it would imply that the U.S.’s gun ownership is not the cause of high crime rates.
Graph #8 could use the count of gun deaths instead of rate per 100,000 for comparing states since a lot of the states with gun laws have higher populations and using the counts would make the states look more similar.
Graph #9 can be manipulated to suggest gun deaths are going down of their own accord. Since the header for includes the phrase “like all homicides”, I would include a second line on the graph showing the trend in non-firearm homicides.
Graph #12 only includes cutting, poison, and firearms so to deceive, I would include data for suicide by hanging because it is similar to suicide by firearm in that it is easily accessible and fast-acting. If it has a similarly high fatality rate, it would suggest that it’s not firearms in specific that are to blame.
On graph #13, I would overlay the overall suicide rate to see if the drop in firearm suicides was significantly different than the trend in general suicide rates.
On graph #15, I would change the color scheme to favor gun rights by making the “protect” line green and the “control” line red. I would also change the y-axis to omit the baseline so the difference looks more drastic.
For graph #16, I would try to cherry-pick data points like Tucson, Arizona where there is less support for gun control after a shooting. Since the graph is not consistent with how long before or after a shooting the survey is taken, I could use any date comparison that results in a decrease in gun control support.
For graph #17, I would use only the second half where there is a larger party divide and would change the x-axis to range from zero (or even negative) to 75% so that support for gun rights appears higher than it is.
